<!--yml
category: 未分类
date: 2024-05-12 20:06:37
-->

# Falkenblog: My Favorite Quotes

> 来源：[http://falkenblog.blogspot.com/2013/04/my-favorite-quotes.html#0001-01-01](http://falkenblog.blogspot.com/2013/04/my-favorite-quotes.html#0001-01-01)

OK, one day into blogging

[retirement](http://falkenblog.blogspot.com/2013/04/my-last-regular-blog-post.html)

and I'm posting, but some asked in the comments for the quote list I mentioned, which I thought I'd share. As all arguments need a premise, and no premise holds for all arguments, this highlights we need to know a lot of aphorisms to be wise.

I know I'm missing hundreds more good ones, and some here are much better than others. That is, 'moderation in all things' is highly profound. In contrast, I don't agree that "Genius is only a greater aptitude for patience", but I do think patience is really important, so I like that quote. Then there's "To generalize is to be an idiot", which I think is just wrong, but I find it fascinating that a thoughtful person thinks this is true.

Most quotes without attribution I merely forgot where I read them, or they are a paraphrase of someone, or a mishmash of several authors.  I suppose one could google them and get a hit rate of 50%.

*   You rarely find a nonconformist who goes it alone  ~ Hoffer*   A beautiful proof should appear inevitable, succinct, and unexpected.  ~ Hardy*   A boy becomes an adult three years before his parents think he does, and about two years after he thinks he does  ~ General Lewis Hershey*   A child’s goal is not to be a successful adult but a successful child.  ~*   A feature of government must be judged good when for a given purpose it uses the force of convention instead of physical force and its evil chances.  ~ Barzun  *   A gaffe is when a politician speaks the truth.  ~ Michael Kinsley *   A healthy appetite for righteousness, kept in due control by good manners, is an excellent thing; but to 'hunger and thirst' after it is often merely a symptom of spiritual diabetes.  ~ Charlie D. Broad*   A knowledgeable fool is a greater fool than an ignorant fool  ~ Moliere  *   A little inaccuracy sometimes saves tons of explanation.  ~ H.H. Munro *   A man can fail, but he isn't a failure until he blames someone else.  ~ J Paul Getty*   A man is likely to mind his own business when it is worth minding. When it is not, he takes his mind off his own meaningless affairs by minding other people's business  ~ Hoffer*   A man who exposes himself when he is intoxicated has not the art of getting drunk  ~ Dr.Samuel Johnson *   A man who suspects his own tediousness is yet to be born  ~ Thomas Bailey Aldrich*   A man's homeland is where he prospers  ~ Aristophanes  *   A mature man lives humbly for a great cause, an immature man dies for it.  ~*   A multitude of words is probably the most formidable means of blurring and obscuring thought  ~ Hoffer*   a passionate obsession with the outside world or the private lives of others is an attempt to compensate for a lack of meaning in one's own life  ~ Eric Hoffer*   A pathological liar is someone who tell untruths that serve no obvious purpose.  ~*   A patient had a 50-50 chance of benefiting from visiting a physician as of 1910.  Medicine was more like voodoo than science until the 20th Century.  ~ Abraham Flexner*   A person’s first duty, a young person’s at any rate, is to be ambitious, and the noblest ambition is that of leaving behind something of permanent value.  ~ GH Hardy *   A poet over 30 is pathetic  ~ H.L. Mencken *   A Pseudo-science consists of a nomenclature by which all positive evidence as favors its doctrine is admitted, and all negative evidence is excluded.  ~ Oliver Wendell Holmes.*   A psychotic thinks 2+2  ~5.  A neurotic thinks 2+2  ~4 and can't stand it. *   A scientific theory is a tool and not a creed.  ~ J.J.Thomson  *   A sense of proportion, which implies priority, is the essence of common sense; it requires the ability to compared ends, as opposed to just means.    *   A single idea, if it is right, saves us the labor of an infinity of experiences.  ~ Jacques Maritain *   A spoiled child never loves his mother  ~ Sir Henry Taylor*   A successful life doesn't require that we've done *the* best, but that we've done *our* best.  ~ H. Jackson Brown, Jr.*   A thing is not necessarily true because someone dies for it.  ~ Oscar Wilde *   A true scientist is known by his confession of ignorance  ~ A.O.Foster  *   A wise man proportions his belief to experience.  ~ David Hume *   Ability, connections, and status are wealth *   Again and again, the bright thought has occurred, "if we can only define our terms, if we can only find the basic unit, if we can spot the right 'indicators', we can then measure and reason flawlessly, we shall have created one more science."  ~ Jaques Barzun *   All anger is self-righteous anger.  There are few cynical opportunists, more often ideologues and moralists. *   All bad art is the result of good intentions.  *   All data are filtered, observation is necessarily 'theory-laden'.  ~ N.R. Hanson *   All flatterers are mercenary, and all low-minded men are flatterers.    ~ Aristotle  *   All movements go too far.   ~ Bertrand Russell *   All our advantages have complimentary negatives at some level *   All supporters of totalitarian despots have hated the bourgeois.  *   All things are difficult before they are easy.  ~ Thomas Fuller *   All things excellent are as difficult as they are rare  ~ Spinoza  *   All truth passes through three stages.  First it is ridiculed.  Next it is violently opposed. Last it is recognized as self-evident.  ~ Shopenhauer  *   Almost all inventors are extremely fond of their latest idea, to the degree that their good judgment is affected.  *   Almost anyone can do science; almost no one can do good science.  ~ LL Larison Cudmore*   Almost everything you do will be insignificant, but it is very important you do it.  ~ Ghandi  *   Always asking for finished products is a sure way to manage projects into failure.  One needs to manage a process that involves iterations of imperfect work.    *   Always try to simplify your syntax and enrich your vocabulary  *   An alcoholic is anyone you don't like who drinks more than you do.  ~ Dylan Thomas. *   An expert is a man who has made all the mistakes which can be made, in a narrow field.   ~ Niels Bohr *   An intellectual is a man who takes more words than necessary to tell more than he knows  ~ Dwight Eisenhower *   Analytic or creative work is best done when in a somewhat lugubrious state of mind.  *   And no one *lies* as much as the indignant do.  ~ Nietsche  *   and those who were seen dancing were thought to be insane by those who could not hear the music  ~ Friedrich Nietzsche *   Animals don't think about meaning. *   Ants are the most selfless animals, yet they are also the most warlike and take slaves.  If you don't value your self highly, how can you value other selves highly?  *   Anxiety is the essential condition of intellectual and artistic creation.  ~ Charles Frankel *   Any explicit, complicated process invites its circumvention.    *   Any jackass can kick down a barn but it takes a good carpenter to build one.   ~ Lyndon B Johnson  *   Any sufficiently advanced technology is indistinguishable from a rigged demo.  ~ Andy Finkel *   Anybody can become angry—that is easy; but to be angry with the right person, and it the right degree, and at the right time, and for the right purpose, and in the right way—that is not within everybody’s power and is not easy.  ~ Aristotle  *   Anyone can carry his burden, however hard, until nightfall.  ~ Robert Louis Stevenson*   Anyone can come up with very hard or very easy problems, the key is to come up with interesting yet soluble problems.    *   Anyone who has never made a mistake has never tried anything new  ~ Albert Einstein *   Anyone who isn't confused really doesn't understand the situation  ~ Edward R Murrow*   Anything becomes interesting if you look at it long enough.  ~ Gustave Faubert *   Anything you're good at contributes to happiness.   ~ Bertrand Russell *   Arguments convincing to one group are often totally unconvincing to others.       *   Aristotle maintained that women had fewer teeth than men; although he was twice married, it never occurred to him to verify this statement by examining his wives' mouths.  ~ Bertrand Russell *   Arrive at knowledge over small streamlets, and do not plunge immediately into the ocean, since progress must go from the easier to the more difficult.  ~ Aquinas  *   Arriving at one goal is the starting point to another.  ~ John Dewey  *   art is something valuable, neither anticipated nor wanted before it was created.  Science creates valuable ideas that are inevitable.  *   As farmers and manufacturing has declined, their status has declined, and their subsidies have increased  *   As regulations proliferate, it's impossible to enforce them all fairly. Enforcement becomes selective and capricious. Legislative micromanagement is the road to tyranny. *   As you age, your talents go from Will, to Quickness, no judgment *   At bottom are only two pure forms of legislation -- productive and redistributive.  ~ Richard A. Epstein*   At the center of your being you have the answer; you know who you are and you know what you want  ~ Lao Tzu *   Attention implies the withdrawal from some things in order to deal effectively with others *   Avoid the temptation to work so hard that there is no time left for serious thinking.  ~ Francis Crick *   Bad ideas aren’t retracted, they are orphaned.  ~*   Bad perseverance is defined by excessive perseverance stemming from ignorance of the situation, economics, or overconfidence.  ~*   Basic research is what I am doing when I don't know what I am doing.  ~ Werner von Braun*   Because geniuses can be eccentric doesn’t imply we should elevate pettiness, boorishness, and irresponsibility with virtue  *   Because reputation lags achievement, we should expect people to reach the zenith of their reputation well past the zenith of their productive output  ~ Richard Posner *   Being a professional means doing your job on the days you don't feel like doing it.  ~ David Halberstam *   Being objective doesn’t imply being neutral, in fact more the more you know the less neutral you  become  *   Better do a little well, than a great deal badly.  ~ Aristotle  *   Both the revolutionary and the creative individual are perpetual juveniles. The revolutionary does not grow up because he cannot grow, while the creative individual cannot grow up because he keeps growing  ~ Hoffer*   Business is not like chess, but like poker, where chance and asymmetric information demand anticipation and probability analysis.  *   By regulating action, which we can control, we indirectly regulate feelings, which we cannot  *   Cargo Cult analysis is analysis that superficially looks like sophisticated work, but in reality is missing the essence of true analysis.     *   Childhood is about developing friendships, interests, discipline and independence.  *   Children have never been good at listening to their elders, but they have never failed to imitate them.  ~  James Baldwin *   Comfort without struggle—and the sense of insecurity that motivates it—leads to self destructive decadence.  *   Commitment becomes hysterical when those who have nothing to give advocate generosity, and those who have nothing to give up preach renunciation.  ~ Hoffer*   Common sense and Bayes theorem suggests that given two persuasive speakers, you will find those which most agree with you as most persuasive.     *   common sense is an intuitive grasp of reality, which takes honesty  ~*   Common sense is as rare as genius.  ~ Emerson  *   Common sense is nothing more than a deposit of prejudices laid down in the mind before you reach eighteen.    ~ Albert Einstein *   Confused thinking … leads nowhere in particular and can be indulged indefinitely without producing any impact upon the world.  ~ Stanislav Andreski *   Convictions are more dangerous enemies of truth than lies.  ~ Nietzcshe  *   Could Hamlet have been written by a committee, or the Mona Lisa painted by a club?    Creative ideas do not spring from groups.  The divine spark leaps from the finger of God to the Adam, whether it takes ultimate shape in a law of physics or a law of the land, a poem or a policy, a sonata or a mechanical computer.  ~ A Whitney Griswold*   Courage is a readiness to risk humiliation.  ~ Nigel Dennis *   Courage is about doing what you're afraid to do.  ~ Eddie Rickenbacker *   Courage is grace under pressure  ~ Ernest Hemingway*   Courage is no less a virtue because it is rarely needed *   Courage is not demonstrated by assuming unpopular stands from the past that subsequently became popular.   *   Courage is the most important virtue because it is the hardest.  ~ David Brooks *   Crass self interest is often masked with pretexts such as justice and fairness and process.  ~*   Creative minds have always been known to survive any kind of bad training.  ~ Anna Freud *   Creative people are often neurotic, and tend to have more anxiety, lower self-esteem and lower tolerance for stress than other individuals.  *   Criticism is always a kind of compliment.  ~ John Maddox *   Cursed is everyone who places his hope in changing the nature of man  ~ Augustine  *   Data are like inkblot, you read into them your unconscious preconceptions.  *   Death need not concern us because when we exist death does not, and when death exists we do not.  ~ Epicurus*   Deep faith eliminates fear.  ~ Lech Walesa *   Democracy substitutes election by the incompetent many for the appointment by the corrupt few  ~ George Bernard Shaw*   Democratic socialism leads away from socialism because people eventually choose nonsocialist policies.    *   Distrust all those who love you extremely upon a very slight acquaintance and without any visible reason  ~ Lord Philip Dormer Stanlope*   Do not be a hair splitter in whose hands the complicated questions do not become simple, but the simple complicated. *   Doing something important comparatively well gives meaning, because people necessarily then appreciate you.  *   Don’t let a little dispute injure a great friendship.  ~*   Don't go around saying the world owes you a living. The world owes you nothing. It was here first.  ~ Mark Twain *   Don't look at what people say, look at what they do *   Doubt is the essence of consciousness.    *   Economics involves the implications of individuals making rational decisions given their constraints and sef-interest.  *   Education is an admirable thing, but is well to remember from time to time that nothing that is worth knowing can be taught.  ~ Oscar Wilde *   Education is what remains after one has forgotten everything he learned in school.  ~ Albert Einstein *   Education would be so much more effective if its purpose were to ensure that by the time they leave school every boy and girl should know how much they don’t know, and be imbued with a lifelong desire to know it.   ~ Sir William Haley*   Elegance and consistency are means to an end, which is out-of-sample prediction.  *   Emphasis on models as the major difference is wrong, the main difference is in variable selection and the transformation of those variables.     *   Empty vessels make the loudest sound, so they with least wit are the greatest babblers.  ~ Plato  *   Equations are more important to me, because politics is for the present, but an equation is something for eternity.  ~ Albert Einstein *   Errors are many, truth is unique.  ~ Peter Kapitsa *   Every decent man is ashamed of the government he lives under  ~ HL Mencken *   Every man loves what he is good at.  ~ Thomas Shadwell *   Every man supposes himself not to be fully understood.  ~ Ralph Waldo Emerson*   Every person takes the limits of their own field of vision for the limits of the world  ~ Arthur Schopenhauer *   Every speech should contain only three main points.  All else will be forgotten.    ~*   Everybody is ignorant, only on different subjects.  ~ Will Rogers *   Everyone, according to the Japanese, has a hidden ikigai.  *   Everything ends badly ... otherwise it wouldn't end.  ~ Koglan the Bartender*   Everything is always decided for reasons other than the real merits of the case  ~ John Maynard Keynes*   Everything is both simpler than we can imagine, and more entangled than we can conceive.  ~ Goethe  *   Everything must not always be said, for that would be folly.  ~ Montaigne  *   Excellence is rarely found, more rarely valued.  ~ Goethe  *   Exempt from vulgar prejudices, but full of his own  *   Experience is a dear teacher, and fools will learn from no other.  ~ Ben Franklin *   Experience is the Mother of science.  ~ H.G.Bohn  *   Expert knowledge is limited knowledge ~ Winston Churchil*   Experts are much better at describing, explaining, performing tasks, and problem-solving within their domains than are novices, but, with a few exceptions, are worse at forecasting than actuarial tables based on historical, statistical models. *   Experts not only know what works, they know what doesn’t work.  This makes them bad for creativity.    *   Facts do not cease to exist because they are ignored  ~ Aldous Huxley *   Facts without theory is trivia.  Theory without facts is bullshit.  *   Facts, however, will ultimately prevail; we must therefore take care that they be not against us.  ~ Francis Bacon *   False facts are highly injurious to the progress of science, for they often long endure; but false views, if supported by some evidence, do little harm, as everyone takes a salutary pleasure in proving their falseness.  ~ Charles Darwin *   For creative thought, common sense is a bad master.  Its sole criterion for judgment is that the new ideas shall look like the old ones.  In other words it can only act by suppressing originality.  ~ Alfred North Whitehead*   Forget past mistakes.  Forget failures.  Forget everything except what you’re going to do now and do it.  ~ William Durant *   Fortune does not change men, it unmasks them  ~ Suzanne Necker *   Friends aren't soulmates, they are people you do things with  *   From birth to 18 a girl needs good parents.  From 18 to 35 she needs good looks. From 35 to 55, good personality.  From 55 on, she needs good cash.  ~ Sophie Tucker *   Genius is only a greater aptitude for patience  ~ Comte de Buffon*   Give not advice without being asked, and when desired, do it briefly.    ~ George Washington *   Given the difficulties forecasting the future, it is very useful to simply know your present condition  ~*   Good judgment comes from experience, and experience comes from bad judgment.  ~ Barry LePatner *   Good models are models useful for making important decisions.     *   Good warriors are indolent laborers  *   Great ideas are new, true, and important *   Great minds discuss ideas, average minds discuss events, small minds discuss people.    ~ H.G.Rickover  *   Great young innovators make radical simplifications that allow them to leapfrog the expert’s relative advantage in technical knowledge. Older innovators are most often praised for their wisdom and judgment.  ~*   Greatests crimes are of excess rather than need *   Growing up is about developing friendships, interests, discipline and independence.  ~*   Guilt is feeling bad about what you did, shame feeling bad about yourself. Choose guilt.  ~*   Happiness is different from pleasure. Happiness has something to do with struggling, enduring, and accomplishing.  ~ George Sheehan *   Happiness is not mostly pleasure, it is mostly victory.  ~ Harry Emerson Fosdick*   Have strong opinions weakly held.  They are then theories you test.  *   Have the courage to change the things you can, the patience to accept the things you can't, and the wisdom to know the difference  ~ Serenity Prayer*   He that loves to be flattered is worthy of the flatterer.  ~ Shakespeare  *   He who is of a calm and happy nature will hardly feel the pressure of age, though to him who is of an opposite disposition youth and age are equally a burden.  ~ Aristotle  *   He who is to be a good ruler must have first been ruled.  ~*   He who is unable to live in society, or who has no need because he is sufficient for himself, must be either a beast or a god.  *   He who praises everybody, praises nobody  ~ James Boswell *   He who says there is no such thing as an honest man, you may be sure is himself a knave  ~ George Berkeley  *   Holding beliefs proportionate to evidence requires humility  *   Human beings are, necessarily, actors who...can be divided...into the sane who know they are acting and the mad who do not.    ~ W.H.Auden*   humans are tribal, so being tribal makes one human.  *   Humor is the only test of gravity, and gravity of humor; for a subject which will not bear raillery is suspicious, and a jest which will not bear serious examination is false wit.  ~ Aristotle  *   I can feel guilty about the past, apprehensive about the future, but only in the present can I act.  The ability to be in the present moment is a major component of mental wellness.  ~ Abraham Maslow *   I can think of nothing less pleasurable than a life devoted to pleasure  ~ John D Rockefeller*   I can usually judge a fellow by what he laughs at  ~ Wilson Mizner *   I contend we are both atheists. I just believe in one fewer god than you do.  ~ Stephen F. Roberts*   I desire to go to Hell, not Heaven.  In Hell I shall enjoy the company of popes, kings, and princes, but in Heaven are only beggars, monks, hermits, and apostles.  ~ Machiavelli  *   I don't know the key to success, but the key to failure is trying to please everybody.  ~ Bill Cosby *   I like, as a director and a spectator, simple, direct, frank films. Nothing disgusts me more than snobbism, mannerism, technical gratuity... and, most of all, intellectualism.  ~ John Ford *   I love him who desires not too many virtues. One virtue is more of a virtue than two, because it is more of a knot for one's destiny to cling to.   *   I never saw a pessimistic general win a battle.  ~ Dwight Eisenhower *   If a man is often the subject of conversation he soon becomes the subject of criticism.  ~ Kant  *   If all men knew what each said of the other, there would not be four friends in the world,  ~ Pascal  *   If an experiment comes out as expected it can be very nice, but if it can only be considered great if it is a surprise.  ~*   If any philosopher had been asked for a definition of infinity, he might have produced some unintelligible rigmarole, but he would certainly not have been able to give a definition that had any meaning at all.   ~ Bertrand Russell *   If at first you don't succeed, try again. Then quit. There is no point making a fool of yourself.  ~ WC Fields *   If Columbus had turned back, no one would have blamed him. Of course, no one would have remembered him either.  *   If everything seems under control, you're not going fast enough  ~ Mario Andretti *   If God is dead, everything is allowed.  ~ Fyodor Dostoyevsky *   If I asked people what they wanted, I would have given them faster horses  ~ Henry Ford *   If many years go by in a field in which no significant new facts come to light, the field sharpens up the opinions and gives the appearance that the problem is solved.  ~ Thomas Gold *   If merely 'feeling good' could decide, drunkenness would be the supremely valid human experience.  ~ William James *   If people never did silly things, nothing intelligent would ever get done.  ~ Ludwig Wittgenstein *   If the facts don't fit the theory, change the facts.  ~ Albert Einstein *   If we do not discipline ourselves the world will do it for us.  ~ William Feather *   if we expect people to take us as we are, we should expect others to also be as they are  ~*   If we take man as he is we make him worse, if we take man as he should be we make him what he can be  ~ Goethe*   If you buy the why, the how is infinitely bearable  ~ Nietsche  *   If you can distinguish between good advice and bad advice, then you don’t need advice.  ~ VanRoy  *   If you get a good wife, you will become very happy; if you get a bad one, you will become a philosopher—and that is good for every man.  ~ Aristotle  *   If you lose your temper, you’ve lost the argument.  *   If you make people think they're thinking, they'll love you; But if you really make them think, they'll hate you.  ~ Don Marquis *   If you read a book and aren't a better person, there's no reason to have read it.  *   Ignorant men raise questions that have already been answered.  ~ Goethe  *   In an adequate social order, the untalented should be able to acquire a sense of usefulness and of growth without interfering with the development of talent around them  ~ Hoffer*   In answering an opponent, arrange your ideas, but not your words.    ~ CC Colton *   In banking, it’s credit, spread, and volume.  You can’t have all three.  *   In disagreements with loved ones, deal only with the current situation. Don’t bring up the past.  *   In every fat book there is a thin book trying to get out.  *   In prosperity our friends know us, in adversity we know our friends *   In public speech, tell jokes in threes.  Start silly, get more serious. *   In real life, good people are interesting and bad people are dull, while in fiction it is the opposite.    *   In science, read the newest books.  In literature, read the oldest.  ~ Edward Bulwer-Lytton. *   In the absence of either fear or hope, only the present moment has any reality: you do what is most amusing, or least boring, at each passing moment.  ~*   In theory there is no difference between theory and practice. In practice there is.  ~ Janvande Snepscheut *   Include a fresh metaphor or illustration in every major presentation  *   Indignation does not imply moral superiority *   Instincts include: seeking, rage, fear, lust, care/confidence, grief/panic  *   Intolerant people think they are applying integrity *   Is does not imply ought, but it informs it.  *   It doesn't have to be perfect to be good  *   It doesn't matter how beautiful your theory is, it doesn't matter how smart you are. If it doesn't agree with experiment, it's wrong.  ~ Richard Feynman *   It has been my experience that folks who have not vices have very few virtues  ~ Abraham Lincoln *   It is a golden rule not to judge men by the opinions but rather by what their opinions make of them.  ~ George Lichtenberg, *   It is a hard thing for intellectuals to acknowledge benefits from their rich moral inferiors who never so intended it.   ~ Victor Davis Hanson*   It is a truism to say that a good experiment is precisely that which spares us the exertion of thinking: the better it is, the less we have to worry about its interpretation, about what it really means.  ~ Peter Medawar *   It is always probable that something improbable will happen.  ~ Logan Bleckley *   It is awfully important to know what is and what is not your business.  ~ Gertrude Stein *   It is dangerous to be sincere unless you are also stupid.  ~ George Bernard Shaw *   It is difficult for people to sort out problems on the fly as failure spreads through a complex system.  *   It is equally a mistake to hold one’s self too high, or to rate one’s self too cheap.  ~ Goethe  *   It is far better to be flexible and know how to learn, rather than trying to make sure you get it right the first time and don’t make mistakes.    *   It is hard to believe that a man is telling the truth when you know that you would lie if you were in his place  ~ HL Mencken *   It is important to be accepted, more so than to have specific friends. *   It is inaccurate to say I hate everything.  I am strongly in favor of common sense and honesty, which makes me against most of what we do.  ~ HL Menken *   It is much better to know something about everything than to know everything about one thing.  ~ Pascal  *   It is much easier to make measurements than to know exactly what you are measuring.  ~ J.W.N.Sullivan.  *   It is necessary that at least once in your life you doubt, as far as possible, all things.  ~ Descartes  *   It is not good to have everything one wants  ~ Pascal  *   It is not he who gains the exact point in dispute who scores most in controversy—but he who has shown the better temper  ~ Samuel Butler *   It is not once nor twice but times without number that the same ideas make their appearance in the world.  *   It is not titles that honor men, but men that honor titles.  ~ Machiavelli  *   It is one of the blesings of old friends that you can afford to be stupid with them  ~ Emerson  *   It once took 90% of our population to grow our food. Now it takes 3%. Are we worse off because of the job losses in agriculture?  *   It takes years of training it ignore the obvious.  *   It’s always tempting to do good at someone else’s expense  ~ Bastiat  *   It’s easy to have faith in yourself and have discipline when you’re a winner, when you’re number one.  What you got to have is faith and discipline when you’re not a winner.  ~ Vince Lombardi *   It's good to have dreams, but not illusions.  ~*   It's not what you have done, but the life you lead.  Karma exists *   I've never known a person to live to be one hundred and be remarkable for anything else.  ~ Josh Billings *   Just as flattery of a friend can pervert, so the insult of an enemy can sometimes correct.  ~ Augustine  *   Justice is Equality…but equality of what?  ~ Book 3, Aristotle's Politics*   Keep you fears to yourself, but share you courage with others.  ~ Robert Louis Stevenson*   Keys to a convincing theory: simple enough to be apprehended without much strain but convoluted enough to require a caste of interpreters. *   Kids don’t need encouragement thinking they understand things they have only the vaguest understanding of. *   Kids gossip more in part because they expect more from their friends, and thus experience many petty betrayals that they have to talk about.  *   Knowledge can be communicated, but not wisdom  ~ Herman Hesse *   Knowledge has to be sucked into the brain, not pushed into it  ~ Victor F. Weisskop*   Knowledge is of two kinds: we know a subject itself, or know where to find it.  ~ Johnson  *   Knowledge of what is possible is the beginning of happiness  ~ Santayana  *   Laws are silent in time of war.  ~ Cicero  *   Laymen feel that facts are easy and theory is difficult.  It is often the other way around. *   Less is More  ~ Robert Browning *   Liberty is more feasible that equality, and pursuing liberty hurts equality less than pursuing equality hurts liberty. *   Literature is mostly about sex and a little about having children.  Life is the other way around.  ~ David Lodge *   Live your life so that if someone says 'Be yourself' it's good advice.  ~ Robert Orben *   Man needs, for his happiness, not only the enjoyment of this or that, but hope and enterprise and change.   ~ Bertrand Russell *   Many can bear adversity, but few contempt.  ~ ThomasFuller  *   many friends are the key to happiness  ~ Epicurus*   Many think we should cultivate the habit of thinking of what we are doing. The precise opposite is the case. Civilization advances by extending the number of important operations which we can perform without thinking about them.  ~ Alfred North Whitehead*   Mechanizing man's work had changed but not lighted his toil.    ~ JS Mill *   Mediocrity knows nothing higher than itself, but talent instantly recognizes genius.  ~ Arthur Conan Doyle*   Men are born for each other’s sake, so either teach people or endure them  ~ Marcus Aurelius *   Men are made by nature unequal.  It is vain, therefore, to treat them as if they were equal.  ~ James Anthony Froude*   Men are more apt to be mistaken in their generalizations than in their particular observations.   Machiavelli  *   Men believe in the truth of anything so long as they see that others strongly believe it is true   Friedreich Nietzsche *   Men do not desire merely to be rich, but to be richer than other men.  ~ John Stewart Mill*   Men need sex more than women, and this gives women power over men.     *   Moderation in all things  ~ Democritus*   Modesty is a virtue not because it implies servile humility, but because it implies a combination of honesty and knowledge *   Monarchy operates on the principle of honor, republicanism on virtue, despotism on fear, and totalitarianism on ideology or (seen from within) on truth.  *   Money, it turns out, is exactly like sex.  You thought of nothing else if you didn't have it, and thought of everything else once you did.  ~ James Baldwin *   More than pay what makes for a happy organization is confidence that higher-ups are making good decisions.  *   Most analytical work is nonproductive: little is new and a significant portion is actually incorrect.     *   Most new ideas are bad. *   Most people are too stupid to act in their own interest  ~ Nietsche  *   Most people do what they to do, no matter how heroic, because they have no option, they have a job to do so they go on and  do it.  *   Most people find confidence attractive  and convincing in presenting ideas.  Yet, it should be noted that confidence often implies ignorance or duplicity.    *   Most questions about correct word usage are questions of custom and authority rather than grammatical logic.    *   Most questions are really statements.   *   Much that passes as idealism is disguised hatred or disguised love of power.   ~ Bertrand Russell *   Natural wealth is both limited and easily obtained, but vanity is insatiable   *   Nature isn't good or bad, it's indifferent. *   Nearly all men can stand adversity, but if you want to test a man’s character, give him power.  ~ Abraham Lincoln *   Neutrality only helps the oppressor, never the victim.  ~ Elie Weisel *   Never complain and never explain.  ~ Benjamin Disraeli *   Never explain--your friends do not need it, and your enemies will not believe you anyway.    ~ Elbert Hubard *   Never mistake motion for action  ~ Ernest Hemingway *   Never speak ill of yourself, your friends will always say enough on that subject  ~ Charles Maurice *   Never will man penetrate deeper into error than when he is continuing on a road which has led him to great success  ~ Friedrich Hayek *   New theories, when first proposed and supported, may make the first page of the New York Times.  Their demise rarely makes even page 18\.     *   Nihilism, cynicism, and sarcasm are the symptoms of bored and guilt-ridden people who belittle those who create their comfort.   *   No conqueror believes in chance.  ~ Friedrich Nietzsche *   No delusion is greater than the notion that method and industry can make up for lack of motherwit, either in science or in practical life.  ~ Thomas Huxley *   No great genius has ever existed without some touch of madness  ~ Aristotle  *   No great philosophy is ever proven wrong, just irrelevant.  ~*   No guest is so welcome in a friend’s house that he will not become a nuisance after three days  ~ Titus Macuious Plautus*   No human thing is of serious importance  ~ Plato  *   No matter how far you have gone on the wrong road, turn back.  ~ Turkish Proverb *   No one washes a rented car   *   No one would choose a friendless existence on condition of having all the other things in the world.  ~*   No opinion should be held with fervor.  None holds with fervor that 7x8  ~56, because it is known that this is the case.  Fervor is necessary only in commending an opinion which is doubtful or demonstrably false.  ~ Voltaire  *   No people do so much harm as those who go about doing good.  ~ Bishop Mandell Creighton*   No science ever defends its first principles.  ~ Aristotle*   No single piece of macroeconomic advice given by the experts to their government has ever had the results predicted.  ~ Peter Drucker *   Nobody ever figures out what life is all about, and it doesn't matter anyway  ~ Richard Feynman *   Nobody forgets where he buried the hatched  ~ Frank McKinney *   Nobody speaks of a beautifful view for 5 minutes  ~ Robert Lewis Stevenson*   Not to know what happened before you were born is to remain forever a child   *   Nothing is ever achieved without enthusiasm.   ~ Ralph Waldo Emerson*   Nothing is so powerful as an idea whose time has come  ~ Victor Hugo *   Often times what people do that’s valuable is very simple, but they make it seem more complex in order to flatter themselves   *   Older, accomplished people often fail miserably to appreciate new theories. *   One can always be kind to people about whom one cares nothing  ~ Oscar Wilde *   One may go wrong in many different ways, but right only in one, which is why it is easy to fail and difficult to succeed.  ~ Aristotle  *   One must never lose time in vainly regretting the past or in complaining against the changes which cause us discomfort, for change is the essence of life.  ~ Anatole France *   One of the symptoms of an approaching nervous breakdown is the belief that one's work is terribly important  ~ Bertrand Russel *   One should respect an honest person even if he expresses opinions differing from one’s own.  ~ Albert Einstein  *   Only a small part of scientific progress has resulted from planned search for specific objectives.  A much more important part has been made possible by the freedom of the individual to follow his own curiosity.  ~ Irving Langmuir *   Only by reading great works can you really get an inkling of how a great intellect works.   *   Only mediocrity can be trusted to always be at its best  ~ SirMaxBeerbohm  *   Only the simplest mind can believe that in a great controversy one side was mere folly  ~ AJ Kane*   Only thoughts reached by walking have value.  ~ Nietsche  *   Opinion is ultimately determined by the feelings, and not by the intellect.  ~ Herbert Spencer *   Opportunities are usually disguised as hard work, so most people don’t recognize them  ~ Ann Landers *   Our Constitution is made only for a moral and religious people. It is wholly inadequate to the government of any other.     ~ John Adams *   Our ignorance of history makes us libel our own times. People have always been like this  ~ Gustave Flaubert *   Our minds are lazier than our bodies  ~ La Rochefoucauld  *   Our narrative self interprets the many parallel processes going on in our brains  ~*   Our task is not to penetrate the essence of things, the meaning of which we do not know anyway, but rather to develop concepts which allow us to talk in a productive way about phenomena in nature  ~ Niels Bohr *   Patience is the companion of wisdom.  ~ Augustine  *   Peace of Mind comes from not wanting to change others  ~ Gerald Jampolsky *   Pedantry is the dotage of knowledge.  ~ Holbrook Jackson *   People are best judged by their actions  ~ Max Perutz *   People can do remarkably well in controlling complex machines whose workings are fully understood and open to view.  ~ Robert Chiles *   People know more than they can articulate (eg, grammar) *   People want to hire someone more intelligent but less ambitious than themselves.   *   People who need advice are least likely to take it.   *   People wish to learn to swim and at the same time to keep one foot on the ground.  ~ Marcel Proust *   Perfection is achieved, not when there is nothing left to add, but when there is nothing left to take away  ~ Antoine de Saint-Exupéry*   Personal retribution is the justice of those with a weak state   *   Pick battles big enough to matter, small enough to win.  ~ Jonathan Kozol  *   Play is about taking things to the point of bad things happening   *   Politicians seek to elicit the words, “I don’t know why. I just like the guy.” *   Poor is the pupil who does not surpass his master.  ~ Leonardo DaVinci *   Prejudices, not faulty reasoning, are the main obstacles of truth  ~*   Preparing for battle, plans were essential.  But once the battle was joined, plans were useless.  ~ Dwight Eisenhower *   Pride is in general censured and decried, but mainly by those who have nothing to be proud of  ~ Arthur Schopenhauer *   Progress has been much more general than retrogression  ~ Darwin  *   Prose talent depends on having something to say and an interesting, highly developed way of saying it.  ~ Fitzgerald  *   Quoting one is plagiarism. Quoting many is research.  ~*   Real knowledge is to know the extent of one’s own ignorance.  ~ Confucius  *   Reality is not subject to the limits of human knowledge.  ~ Troy Gustavel *   Religion is about telling us what we shouldn't do, spirituality about telling us to feel comfortable doing what we want*   Republics decline into democracies and democracies degenerate into despotisms. *   Reputation is what you are perceived to be, your character is what you really are. *   Rudeness is a weak man’s imitation of strength  ~ George Orwell *   Sadness diminishes a man’s powers  ~ Spinoza  *   Science is a great many things, but in the end they all return to this: science is the acceptance of what works and the rejection of what does not.  That needs more courage than we might think.  ~ Jacob Bronowski *   Science is built up with facts, as a house is with stones.  But a collection of facts is no more a science than a head of stones is a house.  ~ Henri Poincare *   Science means simply the aggregate of all the recipes that are always successful.  The rest is literature.    ~ Paul Valery *   Scientific progress is the cumulative growth of a system of knowledge over time, in which useful features are retained and unuseful features are abandoned.   *   Scientific research is not itself a science: it is still an art or craft.  ~ William H. George*   Scientists are always dispensable, for in the long run, others will do what they have been unable to do themselves ~ Peter Medwar *   Search for pleasure, search for power, search for meaning.  The last is most important.  ~*   Seek simplicity and distrust it  ~ Alfred North Whitehead*   Seek, above all, for a game worth playing  ~ Robert S. de Ropp*   Selfishness and altruism are always present in children, one towards group mates, the other towards outsiders.  ~*   Self-righteousness is a loud din raised to drown the voice of guilt within us  ~ Hoffer*   Sexiness is unselfconscious and full of self-confidence, indifferent to the effect he or she is producing, and uninfluenced by others. There must be physical attraction, but beauty is unnecessary   *   Show me a good and gracious loser, and I'll show you a failure.  ~ Knute Rockne *   Silence is sometimes the best answer.   *   Simplicity is the ultimate sophistication.  ~ Leonardo Da Vinci*   Small opportunities are often the beginning of great enterprises.  ~ Demosthenes  *   So far as I can remember, there is not one word in the Gospels in praise of intelligence.   ~ Bertrand Russell *   So long as men praise you, you can only be sure that you are not yet on your own true path but on someone else’s  ~ Friedrich Nietzche *   Some think people who are equal in any respect are equal all respects; because men are equally free, they claim to be absolutely equal  ~ Aristotle  *   Sometimes being brutally honest seems cruel but is kind.  Sometimes it is just cruel. *   Sometimes it is more important to discover what one cannot do, than what one can do.  ~ Lin Yutang  *   Stories embody our search for meaning in an otherwise indifferent world, or experience of the rapture of being alive. *   Stress isn’t caused by bad times, but by working where you feel your talents are being underappreciated.    ~ Lynn Cheney *   Stupidity is without anxiety.  ~ Goethe  *   Success is a lousy teacher. It seduces smart people into thinking they can’t lose.  ~ Bill Gates*   Success is from effort, ability, and luck. *   Success is peace of mind, attained only through self satisfaction knowing you made the effort to do the best you are capable   *   Suffering only has meaning when you cannot control the cause.  Your attitude can then be heroic.  ~*   Take the time to deliberate, but when the time for action arrives, stop thinking and go in  ~ Andrew Jackson *   Talent hits a target no one else can hit; Genius hits a target no one else can see.  ~ Arthur Schopenhauer *   Talent should be judged at its best, character at its worst  ~ Lord Acton *   The art of being wise is knowing what to overlook  ~ William James *   The average man believes a thing first, and then searches for proof to bolster his opinion  ~ Elbert Hubbard  *   The average man, who does not know what to do with his life, wants another one which shall last forever.  ~ Anatole France  *   The benefit of optimism is that it mitigates discouragement   *   The best apology against false accusers is silence.  ~ Milton  *   The best use of life is to spend it for something that will outlast it.  ~ William James *   The best way to have a good idea is to have lots of ideas.   ~ Linus Pauling *   The Catholic and the Communist are alike in assuming that an opponent cannot be both honest and intelligent.    ~ George Orwell *   The central business of adulthood, finding serious things to tie yourself down to   *   The chief difference between free capitalism and State socialism seems to be this: that under the former a man pursues his own advantage openly, frankly and honestly, whereas under the latter he does so hypocritically and under false pretenses  ~ HL Mencken *   The chief virtue that language can have is clearness, and nothing detracts from it so much as the use of unfamiliar words.  ~ Galen  *   The devil can cite Scripture for his own purpose  ~ Shakespeare  *   The difference between a good and excellent employee is that the good one does what you tell them, and the excellent one does what you want.     *   The difference between an average artist and a bad what is what he can draw.  The difference between a good artist and an average one is what he sees.    *   The difference between life and the movies is that a script has to make sense.    ~ David Schmaltz*   The enemies of the future are always the very nicest people  ~ Chistopher Morley *   The essence of sport is courage.  ~ Thomas McGuane *   The eye sees only what the mind is prepared to comprehend.  ~ Henry Bergson *   The fact that an opinion is widely held is no evidence whatever that it is not utterly absurd; indeed in view of the silliness of the majority of mankind, a widespread belief is more likely to be foolish than sensible.    ~ Bertrand Russell *   The first step toward success is taken when you refuse to be a captive of the environment in which you first find yourself.  ~ Mark Caine*   The fortune of our lives…depends on employing well the short period of our youth  ~ Thomas Jefferson *   The fruits of philosophy are the important thing, not the philosophy itself.  When we ask the time, we don’t want to know how watches are constructed.  ~ Geoge Lichtenberg *   The function of wisdom is to discriminate between good and evil.  ~ Cicero  *   The goal of life is to be happy and have meaning.  Meaning comes from doing  things others value.  It's a balance, and takes prudence. *   The greatest obstacle to discovery is not ignorance; it is the illusion of knowledge.  ~ Daniel J. Boorstin*   The greatest way to live with honor in this world is to be what we pretend to be; and if we observe, we shall find, that all human virtues increase and strengthen themselves by the practice of them.  ~*   The high-minded man does not bear grudges, for it is not the mark of a great soul to remember injuries, but to forget them.  ~ Aristotle  *   The ideal man bears the accidents of life with dignity and grace, making the best of circumstances.   *   The implied volatility is the *wrong* volatility we use in the *wrong* model in order to get the *right* price.  ~ Peter Carr *   The importance of a problem should not be judged by the number of pages devoted to it.  ~ Albert Einstein *   The insights that make you rich change every couple years.  Insights that make you happy don’t.  ~*   The intuitive mind is a sacred gift, and the rational mind is a faithful servant.  ~ Einstein*   The judge should not be young: he should have learned to know evil, not from his own soul, but from long observation of the nature of evil in others.  But knowledge should be his guide, not personal experience.    ~ Aristotle  *   The man who early on regards himself as a genius is lost.  ~ George Christoph Lichtenberg*   The man who sees both sides of a question is a man who sees absolutely nothing at all  ~ Oscar Wilde *   the mark of a great writer is the ability to interest the uninterested in the subject she writes about  ~*   The more fundamental a scientific law the more briefly it can be stated.  ~*   The most exciting phrase to hear in science - the one that heralds new discoveries - is not "Eureka!" but "That's funny..."  ~ IsaacAsimov  *   The most imaginative people are the most credulous, for to them everything is possible.  ~ Alexander Chase *   The most important characteristic of a good manager is someone who can recognize value, whether certain projects add value or simply a waste of time.    *   The most melancholy of human reflections, perhaps, is that on the whole, it is a question whether the benevolence of mankind does more good or harm.  ~ Walter Bagehot *   the most troublesome problem which confronts social engineering is how to provide for the untalented and, what is equally important, how to provide against them.  ~ Hoffer*   The most vicious liars tell the truth in a way that leaves a false impression, leaving them technically immune to the charge of lying. *   The old aren't good at science, the young aren't good at politics  ~ Michael Chricton *   The old repeat themselves, and the young have nothing to say. The boredom is mutual  ~ Jacques Bainville *   The older I grow, the more I distrust the familiar doctrine that age brings wisdom.  ~ HL Mencken *   The only way to deep happiness is to do something you love to the best of your ability  ~ Richard Feynman *   The opposite of the religious fanatic is not the fanatical atheist but the gentle cynic who cares not whether there is a god or not.  ~ Eric Hoffer*   The point to remember is that what the government gives it must first take away.  ~ John Striderr Coleman*   The poor don't need money or pity, they need temperance, diligence, thrift and other bourgeois virtues.   *   The preoccupation with detail necessary for works of creative genius is correlated with an  inability to manage or delegate  ~*   The problem with heart disease is the first symptom is often fatal.  ~ Michael Phelps *   The real power of an individual isn't what they know, but the ability to learn.   *   The remarkable thing is that we really love our neighbor as ourselves: we do unto others as we do unto ourselves. We hate others when we hate ourselves. We are tolerant toward others when we tolerate ourselves. We forgive others when we forgive ourselves. We are prone to sacrifice others when we are ready to sacrifice ourselves.  ~ Hoffer*   The responsibilities we have as individuals can't be given to society: education, parenthood.*   The secret to being a bore is to tell everything.  ~ Voltaire  *   The state of nature is not peace, but of war.  ~ Kant  *   The stupid neither forgive nor forget.  The naïve forgive and forget.  The wise forgive but do not forget.    ~ Thomas Szasz *   The sum of our knowledge is not like what the mathematicians call a convergent series … where the study of a few terms may give the general properties of the whole.  ~ George Thomson *   The superior man is distressed by his lack of ability  ~ Confuscious  *   The test of man or woman’s breeding is how they behave in a quarrel  ~ George Bernard Shaw*   The theory of the Communists may be summed up in the single sentence: the abolition of private property.  ~ Karl Marx *   The thing that we call failure is not the falling down, but the staying down  ~ Mary Pickford *   The thing you are most certain of, that your consciousness exists, you cannot prove.  ~*   The thruth is that there is no terror untempered by some great moral idea.  ~ Jean-Luc Godard *   The ultimate result of shielding men from the effects of folly is to fill the world with fools.  ~ Herbert Spenser *   The ultimate test of our integrity is not how we deal with those whom we agree but how we deal with those who we do not agree.  ~ Nathaniel Branden *   The value of an ideal has nothing whatever to do with the sincerity of the man who expresses it.  ~ Oscar Wilde  *   The value of marriage is not that adults produce children, but that children produce adults.  ~ Peter DeVries *   The very best thing you can do for the whole world is to make the most of yourself.  ~ Wallace Wattles*   The virtue of simplicity is to avoid affectation.   *   The wise learn many things from their foes.  ~ Aristophanes  *   The wise man will want to be with him who is better than himself.  ~ Aristotle  *   The world has always been the same; and there is always as much good fortune as bad in it.  ~ Machiavelli  *   The world’s great men have not commonly been great scholars, or great scholars great men  ~ Oliver Holmes  *   The worst hatred is that which has superseded deep love.  ~ Euripides  *   The young always have the same problem—how to rebel and conform at the same time.  They have now solved this by defying their parents and copying one another.  ~ Quentin Crisp *   Theory is an explicit set of instructions for building a mechanical imitation system   *   Theory is knowledge that doesn't work. Practice is when everything works and you don't know why.  ~ Hermann Hesse *   There are some things so stupid that only an intellectual can believe them  ~ George Orwell *   There are three reasons for punishment: deterrence, retribution, and incapacitation.   *   There are too many people who imagine that there is something sophisticated about always believing the best of those who hate your country, and the worst of those who defend it.  ~ Margare Thatcher *   There is a condition worse that blindness, and that is, seeing something that isn't there  ~ L Ron Hubbard  *   There is much pleasure to be gained from useless knowledge.  ~ Bertrand Russell *   There is no great genius without a mixture of madness.   *   There is no method but to be very intelligent.  ~ TS Eliot *   There is nothing more unequal than the equal treatment of unequal people.   ~ Thomas Jefferson *   There is nothing so absurd but some philosopher has not said it.  ~ Cicero  *   There is only one good, that is knowledge; there is only one evil, that is ignorance.  ~ Aristotle  *   There is simple ignorance, which is the source of lighter offenses, and double ignorance, which is accompanied by a conceit of wisdom.  ~ Aristotle  *   Things are never so bad that they can’t be made worse.  ~ Humphrey Bogart *   Things exist before their idea does: the nation formed before the concept of a nation.     *   Think of your audience as intelligent but impatient readers  ~*   This food-and-shelter theory concerning man's efforts is without insight. The desire for praise is more imperative than the desire for food and shelter  ~ Hoffer*   Those good at war aren't good at peace, and those good at peace aren't good at war.  ~ Winston Churchill *   Those who see their lives as spoiled and wasted crave equality and fraternity more than they do freedom  ~ Hoffer*   Those with the best ideas are right about the most important things, not about the most things, or the most complicated things.    ~*   Three ideas are central to science, that of equilibrium, cause and effect, and chance   *   To be able to concentrate for a considerable time is essential to difficult achievement.  ~ Bertrand Russell *   To be engaged in a desperate struggle for food and shelter is to be wholly free from a sense of futility  ~ Hoffer*   To be fertile in hypotheses is the first perquisite of creativity and to be willing to throw them away the moment experience contradicts them is the next.  ~ William James *   To be great is to be misunderstood.  ~ RalphWaldoEmerson,  *   To be happy, we must not be too concerned with others  ~ Albert Camus *   To be liked tell people things about themselves that they would like to be true.  ~*   To be wronged is nothing unless you continue to remember it.  ~ Confucius  *   To change and to improve are two different things.  ~ Germanproverb  *   To disagree with three-fourths of the British public is one of the first requisites of sanity.  ~ Oscar Wilde *   To do nothing is sometimes a good remedy.  ~ Hippocrates  *   To do something, say something, see something, before anybody else—these are the things that confer a pleasure compared with which other pleasures are tame and commonplace, other ecstasies cheap and trivial.  Lifetimes of ecstasy crowded into a single moment.  ~ Mark Twain *   To escape criticism  do nothing, say nothing, be nothing.   ~ Elbert Hubbard *   To generalize is to be an idiot.  To particularize alone is a distinction of merit.  ~ Blake  *   To inspire kids make them feel special, part of a brave corps on a secret, impossible mission.  ~*   To kill an error is as good a service as, and sometimes even better than, the establishing of a new truth or fact.  ~ Charles Darwin *   To make an improvement in the state of the art, one has to know the state of the art.  This is inevitably detail oriented work.     *   To many, total abstinence is easier than total moderation.  ~ St.Augustine at Hippo*   To recognize the significant in the factual is wisdom.  ~*   To those who think, life is a comedy, to those who feel, life is a tragedy  ~*   To Unlearn is as hard as to Learn  ~ Aristotle Politics B4*   Truth is what will be steadily borne out by subsequent experience  ~ William James *   Truth springs from argument among friends  ~ David Hume *   Ugly things are made by those who strive to make something beautiful, and beautiful things are made by those who strive to make something useful  ~ Oscar Wilde *   Unless a man has talents to make something of himself, freedom is an irksome burden  ~ Hoffer*   Use nouns and verbs, not adjectives and adverbs   *   Use the phrase 'it's a bit like… ' in speeches   *   We all have the strength to endure the misfortunes of others.  ~ La Rochefoucauld  *   We all start in ignorance and aim for virtue   *   We are all motivated by a keen desire for praise, and the better a man is, the more he is inspired by glory.  ~ Cicero  *   We are less hurt by the contempt of fools than by the lukewarm approval of men of intelligence  ~ Luc de Clapeirs deVauvenargues*   We are making forecasts with bad numbers, but bad numbers are all we've got.  ~ Michael Penjer *   We are ready to die for an opinion but not for a fact  ~ Hoffer*   We are what we repeatedly do. Character is a habit.  ~*   We ask advice, but we mean approval  ~ CC Colton *   We believe a scientist because he can substantiate his remarks, not because he is eloquent and forcible in his enunciation.  In fact, we distrust him when he seems to be influencing us by his manner.  ~ I.A. Richards  *   We believe in axioms or assumptions, not because they are deduced from the real world, but because the consequences they imply fit the real world.  ~*   We excuse the ignorant; we forgive the wicked  ~*   We have a tendency to assume people are a unity, and thus good people all good, etc.  But the fact that Hitler was good to dogs and children isn’t a paradox.    ~ Richard Posner *   We have so much ill fortune as inconstancy, or so much bad purpose as folly, we are not so full of evil as we are of inanity; we are not so wretched as we are base  ~ Montaigne  *   We improve ourselves by victories over ourself.  There must be contests, and you must win.  ~ Edward Gibbon *   We prove what we want to prove, and the real difficulty is to know what we want to prove.  ~ Emile Chartier *   We receive three educations, one from our parents, one from our schoolmasters, and one from the world.  The third contradicts all that the first two teach us.  ~ Charles Louis de Secondate*   We took risks. We knew we took them. Things have come out against us. We have no cause for complaint.   *   What is confidence?  Ignorance, ignorance, sheer ignorance – you know there’s no confidence to equal it. It’s only when you know something about a profession, I think, that you’re timid or careful.  ~ Orson Wells *   What is fruitful alone is true.  ~ Goethe  *   What is said when drunk has been thought out beforehand.  ~ Flemish proverb *   What makes a principle a principle is our willingness to apply it to our own disadvantage.   *   What was hard to endure is sweet to recall  ~ European Proverb *   Whatever enlarges hope will exalt courage.  ~ Samuel Johnson *   Whatever you do, you need courage.  Whatever course you decide upon, there is always someone to tell you that you are wrong.  There are always difficulties arising which tempt you to believe that your critics are right.  To map out a course of action and follow it to the end, requires some of the same courage a soldier needs.    ~ Ralph Waldo Emerson*   When a debater’s point is not impressive, he brings forth many arguments,    ~ Talmud  *   When a woman isn't beautiful, people tell her. "You have lovely eyes, you have lovely hair. “  ~ Anton Chekhov *   When choosing a boss, being competent is more important than being nice.     *   When making a point, don’t feel compelled to say everything you know about something.  It just obscures your point.  ~*   When people are free to do as we please, they usually imitate each other  ~ Hoffer*   When subjects felt happy, there is a decrease of activity in the regions of the cerebral cortex that are committed to forethought and planning.    ~*   When we feel that we lack whatever is needed to secure someone else’s esteem, we are very close to hating him  ~ Luc de Clapeirs de Vauvenargues*   When you have nothing to say, say nothing  ~ Charles Colton *   When you become senile, you won't know it  ~ Bill Cosby *   Whenever a subject takes seriously definitions and origins, it is involved in blather, not progress.  ~*   Where freedom is real, equality is the passion of the masses. Where equality is real, freedom is the passion of a small minority  ~ Hoffer*   Whereas wisdom favors the probabilities, folly favors only the possibilities.  ~ Gracian Balthasar *   Whoever fights monsters should see to it that in the process he does not become a monster.  ~ Nietsche  *   Wide, cohesive lack of consistency is a great strength, because it can then be used to prove anything right, something found in all creeds.   *   Woe unto you, when all men speak well of you!  ~ Luke,6:26  *   Worldviews are more a mental security blanket than a serious effort to understand the world  ~ Bryan Caplan *   Wrong hypotheses, rightly worked from, have produced more useful results than unguided observations.    ~ Augustus De Morgan  *   You can pretend to be serious; you can’t pretend to be witty  ~ Sacha Guitry *   You can’t be brave if you’ve only had wonderful things happen to you.  ~ Mary Tyler Moore*   You can’t build a reputation on what you are going to do.  ~ Henry Ford *   You cannot teach a man anything, you can only help him to find it for himself.  ~ Galileo Galilei *   You don't get somebody to like you by doing them a favor. That only tends to build resentment over the fact that they are needy and you are not. No, you ask them to do you a favor.  ~ Ben Franklin*   You forgive others mainly for the selfish reason of moving on   *   You have enemies?  Good.  That means you have stood up for something  ~ Churchill  *   You have the right to your own opinion, not your own facts   *   You need data more than theory to destroy bad theories.     *   You only live once, but if you do it right, once is enough.  ~ Mae West *   You wouldn’t care what people think about you if you knew how little they think about you   *   Your wisdom should be without pride.    ~ Augustine  *   You've got to jump off cliffs all the time and build your wings on the way down.  ~ Ray Bradbury *   The principle difference between heaven and hell is the company you keep there.   ~ Lois Bujold*   People have a hard time with things that are too complicated, and things that are too simple