<!--yml
category: 未分类
date: 2024-05-18 05:02:52
-->

# Magmasystems Blog: Abstracting the CEP Engine

> 来源：[http://magmasystems.blogspot.com/2008/04/abstracting-cep-engine.html#0001-01-01](http://magmasystems.blogspot.com/2008/04/abstracting-cep-engine.html#0001-01-01)

Here are two comments that I received yesterday, and my answers:

1)

*You bought an CEP Engine that doesn't support event clouds?*

We feel that Coral8 does support event clouds, but we are looking for the best pattern to implement it. Mark, who is the

CTO

of Coral8, doesn't quite agree with the term "event cloud". His posting

[here](http://www.coral8.com/blogs/blog-entry/unclouding-and-streamlining-your-thinking-about-cep-use-cases)

highlights his argument. According to Mark, an "event cloud" can be represented as multiple event streams,

something

that Coral8 supports.

2)

*How and why did you abstract the CEP engine in your system?* 

First, the why. We want to insulate ourselves from any uncertainties concern the

CEP

engine, both in terms of the product itself and of the company. In this economic environment, we are concerned that some of these smallish

CEP

companies might be strained. Ones who are backed by Venture Capital might find their

VC's

getting worried and thinking that we are reliving those inglorious times from 2002 to 2003\. Ones who are privately financed might find that the backers want to move into other areas. It is no secret that most firms are cutting back or delaying their software purchases, and the ones who get impacted first are the smaller niche companies.

We also want to have some flexibility in case the

CEP

engine itself does not function as advertised. Coral8 has given us great support, but we have not stressed it yet. We know other companies who have evaluated Coral8 who have

foudn

some shortcomings, things that the Coral8 staff have addressed. However, it is perfectly within the realm of possibility that we may need to consider another

CEP

engine should Coral8 fall on its face.

Now, the how ....

We are not using Coral8's native input and output adapters. We are not even reading databases using Coral8's

PollFromDatabase

and

ReadFromDatabase

adapters. We have an input server that is used to read static and real-time data and

marshall

that data into coral8

tuples

. On the other side, we have an output server that takes the derived event

tuples

from Coral8,

marshalls

them into a common format, and does various kinds of alerting and visualizations.

From the days that we did evaluations of other

CEP

vendors, we have layers in our input and output servers that deal with

Aleri

and

Streambase

. In other words, we have our own adapters! Changing from Coral8 to

Streambase

or

Aleri

involves a simple edit to our Spring-like configuration files.

In addition, we have the ability to farm out work to other engines, such as

KDB

+. We can then read the derived events that are generated by other systems (as long as they are in our common format) and put them into the

CEP

engine's "event cloud".

In our architecture, we have introduced extra hops in order to abstract the

CEP

engine. But, we are not that concerned, since we are dealing with analysis and alerting rather than trading.

©2008 Marc Adler - All Rights Reserved